README.md, before:

# TON Footsteps

The list of the TON Footsteps represented in the GitHub [issues](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues) section.

### How to propose something to the list?
**Ideation Stage**
1. Open a [**Footstep issue**](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/new?assignees=&labels=footstep&template=Footstep.yaml). Name it using the name of your proposal.
2. Fill the issue form or use [**footstep issue template**](ton-footstep-issue-template.md) as a reference to explain the goal of the proposal. Use the [**#217**](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/217) issue as an example.
3. Ensure to examine the [**Telegram Bot**](https://t.me/footsteps_helper_bot), which, upon a single request, will generate a ready-to-use footstep in compliance with the predefined parameters, visible in the [**instructions for rapid footstep creation using ChatGPT**](https://t.me/thetontech/47).

**Review Stage**
1. The community can comment, discuss and suggest changes to the proposal.
2. TON Footsteps [**committee**](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps#ton-footsteps-committee) regularly reviews proposals. The committee labels an issue `approved` if approved. Otherwise, they close it.
3. After receipt of the label `approved`, footstep is approved for implementation, but has not yet been assigned to the performer.
4. After discussing the amount of **reward**, **oriental release date** and the assignment of the performer(s), they can start performing footstep.

**Completion stage**
1. Footstep performer finishes the task and verifies that all deliverables are completed.
2. Performer leaves a comment in the issue with following information:
* TON wallet address for reward.
* Results achieved.
* Name for the [**Hall of Fame**](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps#hall-of-fame).
3. The [**committee**](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps#ton-footsteps-committee) will review the work and distribute rewards.

### How to complete something from the list?
1. Find a suitable task from the [**list of the approved issues and free from the performer**](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Aapproved+no%3Aassignee).
2. Propose your plan or just ask to assign yourself to the issue.
3. Follow next steps of [**Review and Completion stages**](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps#how-to-propose-something-to-the-list).

**It's worth pay attention**
* Please don't forget to do interim progress reports in the comments.
* If some milestone is done, mark the checkboxes in **Deliverables** as completed.

### Hall of Fame
| Name | Task | Link |
|------|------|------|
| [Revuza](https://github.com/LevZed), [Gusarich](https://github.com/Gusarich)   | Examples: How to receive payments in a Telegram bot  | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/8)     |
| [Dan Volkov](https://github.com/dvlkv) | VS Code Extension for FunC | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/18) |
| [Oleg Baranov](https://github.com/xssnick) | Soulbound NFT's | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/23) |
| [Oleg Baranov](https://github.com/xssnick) | NFT Swap Contract | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/32) |
| [Roman](https://github.com/swiftadviser) | User-friendly TON Documentation | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/31) |
| [Nikita](https://github.com/sobolevn) | `highligh.js` integration | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/42) |
| [Purple](https://github.com/purp1le) | NFT Raffle contract | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/37) |
| [Dan Volkov](https://github.com/dvlkv) | FunC, Fift and TL-b lexers for pygments | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/40) |
| [Nikita](https://github.com/sobolevn) | Fift syntax highlight for `highlight.js` | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/45) |
| [Nikita](https://github.com/sobolevn) | TL-B syntax highlight for `highlight.js` | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/49) |
| [menschee](https://github.com/menschee) | Article: How does the fee count? | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/9) |
| [Nikita](https://github.com/sobolevn) | Adds syntax highlighting of Tlb, Fift, and FunC to `prisma.js` | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/53) |
| [Oleg Baranov](https://github.com/xssnick) | Verifier Registry smart contract | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/41) |
| [Revuza](https://github.com/LevZed) | Cover "Explorers" article | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/61) |
| [Raven](https://github.com/anomaly-guard) | Tutorials: How to create (mint) own NFT | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/7) |
| [Coalus](https://github.com/coalus) | Examples: How to receive payments in a Telegram bot using NodeJS | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/58) | 
| [Nikita](https://github.com/sobolevn) | Adds peg parser for Tlb language | [Issue #59](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/59), [Issue #89](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/89), [Issue #92](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/92) |
| [Gusarich](https://github.com/Gusarich) | Cover "Wallet Contracts" article | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/63) |
| [Slava](https://github.com/delovoyhomie) | Tutorials: Mint a Fungible Token (Jetton) | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/66) |
| [Andrey Burnosov](https://github.com/AndreyBurnosov) | Tutorial: How to run TON Site | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/74) |
| [Gusarich](https://github.com/Gusarich) | Cover "How to open any TON Site" article | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/75) |
| [Dan Volkov](https://github.com/dvlkv) | NFT Sales for Jettons contract | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/67) |
| [Vadim Volodin](https://github.com/PolyProgrammist/) | Add toncoin to trust wallet assets | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/56) |
| [Miandic](https://github.com/Miandic), [Gusarich](https://github.com/Gusarich), [Tashonov](https://github.com/miroslav-tashonov), [Andrew Grekov](https://github.com/thekiba), [Coalus](https://github.com/coalus), [Spite Moriarty](https://github.com/aSpite) | TON Cookbook | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/10) |
| [Nick Nekilov](https://github.com/NickNekilov) | Develop a universally adopted wrapped Toncoin (wTON) | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/64) |
| [Slava](https://github.com/delovoyhomie) | Articles about "Toncli" and "Ton Storage" | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/103) |
| [Shayan Shojaei](https://github.com/shayan-shojaei) | General TON Stats Website | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/11) |
| [ProgramCrafter](https://github.com/ProgramCrafter) | Articles: TVM assembly, Fift and the difference | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/110) |
| [Gusarich](https://github.com/Gusarich) | Articles, improvements, reviews and fixes for TON docs | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/112) |
| [Slava](https://github.com/delovoyhomie) | Telegram Bot for the TON Developer Community | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/116) |
| [Vadim Volodin](https://github.com/PolyProgrammist/), [Viacheslav Bushev](https://github.com/stspbu) | Add toncoin to trust wallet core | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/81) |
| [ProgramCrafter](https://github.com/ProgramCrafter) | Article: Integration manual for TON Connect 2.0 | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/123) |
| [ProgramCrafter](https://github.com/ProgramCrafter) | Article: Generation of block random seed | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/124) |
| [Gusarich](https://github.com/Gusarich) | Article: Random number generation in smart contracts | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/114) |
| [Nikita Kuznetsov](https://github.com/KuznetsovNikita) | Development TON Connect 2.0 in OpenMask | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/107) |
| [AlexG](https://github.com/reveloper) | TACT lang documentation | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/105)|
| [Oleg Baranov](https://github.com/xssnick) | English Translation of Articles of TON Deep Doc | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/128)|
| [TonSafe](https://github.com/tonsafe) | Development TON Connect 2.0 in TonSafe | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/140)|
| [Mark](https://github.com/KIMCAT33) | Tonic Wallet : First Multi-Accounts based TON Extension Wallet supporting TC 2.0 | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/155)|
| [Gusarich](https://github.com/Gusarich), [Miandic](https://github.com/Miandic) | Multisig wallets support for `ton.js` and guide | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/86)|
| [ProgramCrafter](https://github.com/ProgramCrafter) | Article: Sending messages with TON Connect 2.0 | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/150) |
| [Andrey Sorokin](https://github.com/sorokin0andrey) | Development TON Connect 2.0 in Tonkeeper | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/161)|
| [mytonwalletorg](https://github.com/mytonwalletorg) | Development TON Connect 2.0 in MyTonWallet | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/149) |
| [Spite Moriarty](https://github.com/aSpite) | Tutorial: How to work with smart wallet contracts | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/141)
| [Vladislav Zhovnitsky](https://github.com/vzhovnitsky) | Development TON Connect 2.0 in Tonhub | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/108) |
| [krau5](https://github.com/krau5) | TVM Instruction Search React Component for TON Docs | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/175) |
| [Sergey Andreev](https://github.com/siandreev) | Example of a telegram bot that uses TonConnect 2.0 | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/176) |
| [Aleksandr Brekhin](https://github.com/MrKamenAdmin) | Integrating Kotlin SDK with Java Projects | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/172) |
| [Ivan Bridge](https://github.com/deivana) | Development TON Connect 2.0 in DeWallet web wallet | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/193) |
| [TONFLOW](https://github.com/tonflow) | Development TON Connect 2.0 in TONFLOW web wallet | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/186) |
| [Aleksey Papirovskiy](https://github.com/Apapirovskiy) | Rust SDK for TON | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/182) |
| [Coalus](https://github.com/coalus) | Article: NFT Collection step-by-step creation | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/157) |
| [TonDevStudy](https://github.com/TonDevStudy) | Series of videos on TON programming - Livecoding on FunC in English with TON Dev Study | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/203) |
| [XTON team](https://github.com/xtonwallet) | Development TON Connect 2.0 in XTON wallet | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/189) |
| [Roman Zaycev](https://github.com/romanzaycev) | PHP SDK for TON | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/205) |
| [Slava](https://github.com/delovoyhomie), [Gusarich](https://github.com/gusarich) | Notifications in Telegram about new footsteps | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/152) |
| [Andrey Burnosov](https://github.com/AndreyBurnosov) | Access control via NFT and SBT | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/215) |
| [Andrey Kravchenko](https://github.com/XaBbl4) | Python library for TON Connect 2.0 | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/199) |
| [thekiba](https://github.com/thekiba), [goreactdev](https://github.com/goreactdev)   | ADNL over UDP for Node.JS  | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/216)     |
| [Gusarich](https://github.com/Gusarich) | Detailed description of TON block layout in the TON Documentation | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/201) |
| [Gusarich](https://github.com/Gusarich) | Detailed description of Transaction layout in the TON Documentation | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/202) |
| [Slava](https://github.com/delovoyhomie), [Andrey Burnosov](https://github.com/AndreyBurnosov) | Blockchain Config | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/119) |
| [Gusarich](https://github.com/Gusarich) | Massive sender bot and contract | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/165) |
| [XTON team](https://github.com/xtonwallet) | VS Code extension for Tact language support | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/131) |
| [Coalus](https://github.com/coalus) | Update and Refactor Awesome TON Page with TON Ecosystem Links | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/237) |
| [Coalus](https://github.com/coalus), [krau5](https://github.com/krau5) | SBT Minter telegram bot | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/214) |
| [TonDevStudy](https://github.com/TonDevStudy) | Series of videos on TON programming - Livecoding on Python in English with TON Dev Study | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/233) |
| [ProgramCrafter](https://github.com/ProgramCrafter) | TON Timer | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/71) |
| [Ivan Romanovich](https://github.com/romanovichim) | Dart library for TON Connect 2.0 | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/228) |
| [thekiba](https://github.com/thekiba), [goreactdev](https://github.com/goreactdev) | Ton Developers Program: Footsteps | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/221) |
| [Gusarich](https://github.com/Gusarich) | Documentation for Get Methods (Getters) in TON Blockchain | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/250) |
| [yungwine](https://github.com/yungwine) | Step-by-Step Guide for Launching Liteserver | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/249) |
| [SeriyBeliy](https://github.com/seriybeliy11) | Reproducible research of performance of TON Footsteps as a Component | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/184) |
| [ProgramCrafter](https://github.com/ProgramCrafter) | Step-by-step explanation for TON DNS subdomains system | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/251) |
| [NMI](https://github.com/NMIFUN) | Testnet coins faucet bot for Telegram | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/179) |
| [TonDevStudy](https://github.com/TonDevStudy) | TON Dev Study - Learn send_mode and fees through Sandbox tests | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/229) |
| [pyAndr3w](https://github.com/pyAndr3w) | C# SDK for TON | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/204) |

### TON Footsteps committee
* [Anthony Tsivarev](https://github.com/tsivarev) - Director of Developer Relations 
* [Slava Yakimenko](https://github.com/delovoyhomie) - Managing director of TON Footsteps
* [Kirill Malev](https://github.com/hiyorimi) - Chief adviser of TON Footsteps
* [Daniil Sedov](https://github.com/Gusarich) - Main contributor of TON Footsteps

For any questions, please contact [Slava Yakimenko](https://github.com/delovoyhomie) during working hours.

Commit message:

Dart/Flutter SDK for TON

README.md, after:

# TON Footsteps

The list of the TON Footsteps represented in the GitHub [issues](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues) section.

### How to propose something to the list?
**Ideation Stage**
1. Open a [**Footstep issue**](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/new?assignees=&labels=footstep&template=Footstep.yaml). Name it using the name of your proposal.
2. Fill the issue form or use [**footstep issue template**](ton-footstep-issue-template.md) as a reference to explain the goal of the proposal. Use the [**#217**](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/217) issue as an example.
3. Ensure to examine the [**Telegram Bot**](https://t.me/footsteps_helper_bot), which, upon a single request, will generate a ready-to-use footstep in compliance with the predefined parameters, visible in the [**instructions for rapid footstep creation using ChatGPT**](https://t.me/thetontech/47).

**Review Stage**
1. The community can comment, discuss and suggest changes to the proposal.
2. TON Footsteps [**committee**](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps#ton-footsteps-committee) regularly reviews proposals. The committee labels an issue `approved` if approved. Otherwise, they close it.
3. After receipt of the label `approved`, footstep is approved for implementation, but has not yet been assigned to the performer.
4. After discussing the amount of **reward**, **oriental release date** and the assignment of the performer(s), they can start performing footstep.

**Completion stage**
1. Footstep performer finishes the task and verifies that all deliverables are completed.
2. Performer leaves a comment in the issue with following information:
* TON wallet address for reward.
* Results achieved.
* Name for the [**Hall of Fame**](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps#hall-of-fame).
3. The [**committee**](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps#ton-footsteps-committee) will review the work and distribute rewards.

### How to complete something from the list?
1. Find a suitable task from the [**list of the approved issues and free from the performer**](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Aapproved+no%3Aassignee).
2. Propose your plan or just ask to assign yourself to the issue.
3. Follow next steps of [**Review and Completion stages**](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps#how-to-propose-something-to-the-list).

**It's worth pay attention**
* Please don't forget to do interim progress reports in the comments.
* If some milestone is done, mark the checkboxes in **Deliverables** as completed.

### Hall of Fame
| Name | Task | Link |
|------|------|------|
| [Revuza](https://github.com/LevZed), [Gusarich](https://github.com/Gusarich)   | Examples: How to receive payments in a Telegram bot  | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/8)     |
| [Dan Volkov](https://github.com/dvlkv) | VS Code Extension for FunC | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/18) |
| [Oleg Baranov](https://github.com/xssnick) | Soulbound NFT's | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/23) |
| [Oleg Baranov](https://github.com/xssnick) | NFT Swap Contract | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/32) |
| [Roman](https://github.com/swiftadviser) | User-friendly TON Documentation | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/31) |
| [Nikita](https://github.com/sobolevn) | `highligh.js` integration | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/42) |
| [Purple](https://github.com/purp1le) | NFT Raffle contract | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/37) |
| [Dan Volkov](https://github.com/dvlkv) | FunC, Fift and TL-b lexers for pygments | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/40) |
| [Nikita](https://github.com/sobolevn) | Fift syntax highlight for `highlight.js` | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/45) |
| [Nikita](https://github.com/sobolevn) | TL-B syntax highlight for `highlight.js` | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/49) |
| [menschee](https://github.com/menschee) | Article: How does the fee count? | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/9) |
| [Nikita](https://github.com/sobolevn) | Adds syntax highlighting of Tlb, Fift, and FunC to `prisma.js` | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/53) |
| [Oleg Baranov](https://github.com/xssnick) | Verifier Registry smart contract | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/41) |
| [Revuza](https://github.com/LevZed) | Cover "Explorers" article | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/61) |
| [Raven](https://github.com/anomaly-guard) | Tutorials: How to create (mint) own NFT | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/7) |
| [Coalus](https://github.com/coalus) | Examples: How to receive payments in a Telegram bot using NodeJS | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/58) | 
| [Nikita](https://github.com/sobolevn) | Adds peg parser for Tlb language | [Issue #59](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/59), [Issue #89](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/89), [Issue #92](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/92) |
| [Gusarich](https://github.com/Gusarich) | Cover "Wallet Contracts" article | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/63) |
| [Slava](https://github.com/delovoyhomie) | Tutorials: Mint a Fungible Token (Jetton) | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/66) |
| [Andrey Burnosov](https://github.com/AndreyBurnosov) | Tutorial: How to run TON Site | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/74) |
| [Gusarich](https://github.com/Gusarich) | Cover "How to open any TON Site" article | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/75) |
| [Dan Volkov](https://github.com/dvlkv) | NFT Sales for Jettons contract | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/67) |
| [Vadim Volodin](https://github.com/PolyProgrammist/) | Add toncoin to trust wallet assets | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/56) |
| [Miandic](https://github.com/Miandic), [Gusarich](https://github.com/Gusarich), [Tashonov](https://github.com/miroslav-tashonov), [Andrew Grekov](https://github.com/thekiba), [Coalus](https://github.com/coalus), [Spite Moriarty](https://github.com/aSpite) | TON Cookbook | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/10) |
| [Nick Nekilov](https://github.com/NickNekilov) | Develop a universally adopted wrapped Toncoin (wTON) | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/64) |
| [Slava](https://github.com/delovoyhomie) | Articles about "Toncli" and "Ton Storage" | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/103) |
| [Shayan Shojaei](https://github.com/shayan-shojaei) | General TON Stats Website | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/11) |
| [ProgramCrafter](https://github.com/ProgramCrafter) | Articles: TVM assembly, Fift and the difference | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/110) |
| [Gusarich](https://github.com/Gusarich) | Articles, improvements, reviews and fixes for TON docs | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/112) |
| [Slava](https://github.com/delovoyhomie) | Telegram Bot for the TON Developer Community | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/116) |
| [Vadim Volodin](https://github.com/PolyProgrammist/), [Viacheslav Bushev](https://github.com/stspbu) | Add toncoin to trust wallet core | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/81) |
| [ProgramCrafter](https://github.com/ProgramCrafter) | Article: Integration manual for TON Connect 2.0 | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/123) |
| [ProgramCrafter](https://github.com/ProgramCrafter) | Article: Generation of block random seed | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/124) |
| [Gusarich](https://github.com/Gusarich) | Article: Random number generation in smart contracts | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/114) |
| [Nikita Kuznetsov](https://github.com/KuznetsovNikita) | Development TON Connect 2.0 in OpenMask | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/107) |
| [AlexG](https://github.com/reveloper) | TACT lang documentation | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/105)|
| [Oleg Baranov](https://github.com/xssnick) | English Translation of Articles of TON Deep Doc | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/128)|
| [TonSafe](https://github.com/tonsafe) | Development TON Connect 2.0 in TonSafe | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/140)|
| [Mark](https://github.com/KIMCAT33) | Tonic Wallet : First Multi-Accounts based TON Extension Wallet supporting TC 2.0 | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/155)|
| [Gusarich](https://github.com/Gusarich), [Miandic](https://github.com/Miandic) | Multisig wallets support for `ton.js` and guide | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/86)|
| [ProgramCrafter](https://github.com/ProgramCrafter) | Article: Sending messages with TON Connect 2.0 | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/150) |
| [Andrey Sorokin](https://github.com/sorokin0andrey) | Development TON Connect 2.0 in Tonkeeper | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/161)|
| [mytonwalletorg](https://github.com/mytonwalletorg) | Development TON Connect 2.0 in MyTonWallet | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/149) |
| [Spite Moriarty](https://github.com/aSpite) | Tutorial: How to work with smart wallet contracts | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/141)
| [Vladislav Zhovnitsky](https://github.com/vzhovnitsky) | Development TON Connect 2.0 in Tonhub | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/108) |
| [krau5](https://github.com/krau5) | TVM Instruction Search React Component for TON Docs | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/175) |
| [Sergey Andreev](https://github.com/siandreev) | Example of a telegram bot that uses TonConnect 2.0 | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/176) |
| [Aleksandr Brekhin](https://github.com/MrKamenAdmin) | Integrating Kotlin SDK with Java Projects | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/172) |
| [Ivan Bridge](https://github.com/deivana) | Development TON Connect 2.0 in DeWallet web wallet | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/193) |
| [TONFLOW](https://github.com/tonflow) | Development TON Connect 2.0 in TONFLOW web wallet | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/186) |
| [Aleksey Papirovskiy](https://github.com/Apapirovskiy) | Rust SDK for TON | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/182) |
| [Coalus](https://github.com/coalus) | Article: NFT Collection step-by-step creation | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/157) |
| [TonDevStudy](https://github.com/TonDevStudy) | Series of videos on TON programming - Livecoding on FunC in English with TON Dev Study | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/203) |
| [XTON team](https://github.com/xtonwallet) | Development TON Connect 2.0 in XTON wallet | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/189) |
| [Roman Zaycev](https://github.com/romanzaycev) | PHP SDK for TON | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/205) |
| [Slava](https://github.com/delovoyhomie), [Gusarich](https://github.com/gusarich) | Notifications in Telegram about new footsteps | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/152) |
| [Andrey Burnosov](https://github.com/AndreyBurnosov) | Access control via NFT and SBT | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/215) |
| [Andrey Kravchenko](https://github.com/XaBbl4) | Python library for TON Connect 2.0 | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/199) |
| [thekiba](https://github.com/thekiba), [goreactdev](https://github.com/goreactdev)   | ADNL over UDP for Node.JS  | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/216)     |
| [Gusarich](https://github.com/Gusarich) | Detailed description of TON block layout in the TON Documentation | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/201) |
| [Gusarich](https://github.com/Gusarich) | Detailed description of Transaction layout in the TON Documentation | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/202) |
| [Slava](https://github.com/delovoyhomie), [Andrey Burnosov](https://github.com/AndreyBurnosov) | Blockchain Config | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/119) |
| [Gusarich](https://github.com/Gusarich) | Massive sender bot and contract | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/165) |
| [XTON team](https://github.com/xtonwallet) | VS Code extension for Tact language support | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/131) |
| [Coalus](https://github.com/coalus) | Update and Refactor Awesome TON Page with TON Ecosystem Links | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/237) |
| [Coalus](https://github.com/coalus), [krau5](https://github.com/krau5) | SBT Minter telegram bot | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/214) |
| [TonDevStudy](https://github.com/TonDevStudy) | Series of videos on TON programming - Livecoding on Python in English with TON Dev Study | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/233) |
| [ProgramCrafter](https://github.com/ProgramCrafter) | TON Timer | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/71) |
| [Ivan Romanovich](https://github.com/romanovichim) | Dart library for TON Connect 2.0 | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/228) |
| [thekiba](https://github.com/thekiba), [goreactdev](https://github.com/goreactdev) | Ton Developers Program: Footsteps | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/221) |
| [Gusarich](https://github.com/Gusarich) | Documentation for Get Methods (Getters) in TON Blockchain | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/250) |
| [yungwine](https://github.com/yungwine) | Step-by-Step Guide for Launching Liteserver | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/249) |
| [SeriyBeliy](https://github.com/seriybeliy11) | Reproducible research of performance of TON Footsteps as a Component | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/184) |
| [ProgramCrafter](https://github.com/ProgramCrafter) | Step-by-step explanation for TON DNS subdomains system | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/251) |
| [NMI](https://github.com/NMIFUN) | Testnet coins faucet bot for Telegram | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/179) |
| [TonDevStudy](https://github.com/TonDevStudy) | TON Dev Study - Learn send_mode and fees through Sandbox tests | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/229) |
| [pyAndr3w](https://github.com/pyAndr3w), [Purple Guy](https://github.com/purpleguy99) | C# SDK for TON | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/204) |
| [Novus Nota](https://github.com/novusnota) | Dart/Flutter SDK for TON | [Issue](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues/224) |


### TON Footsteps committee
* [Anthony Tsivarev](https://github.com/tsivarev) - Director of Developer Relations 
* [Slava Yakimenko](https://github.com/delovoyhomie) - Managing director of TON Footsteps
* [Kirill Malev](https://github.com/hiyorimi) - Chief adviser of TON Footsteps
* [Daniil Sedov](https://github.com/Gusarich) - Main contributor of TON Footsteps

For any questions, please contact [Slava Yakimenko](https://github.com/delovoyhomie) during working hours.
