grants/GRANT_PROGRAM_GUIDELINES.md, before:

<a href="https://ton.org/">
	<img width="100%" src="/assets/thin-header.png" alt="TON Ecosystem" />
</a>

# Grant program guidelines

Anyone is welcome to apply for a grant. Projects funded through our programs are broad in scope, but our focus lies on strong technical projects that add value to the ecosystem.

Generally, your project will have better chances to be accepted if:

- It presents a well-researched or tested concept, for which ideally you are able to show some prior work.
- You can demonstrate that the project will be maintained after completion of the grant, be it through an obvious commitment to the technology from your side, additional funding sources or an existing business model.
- Your team has proven experience with the relevant languages and technologies and/or a strong technical background. You will be asked to provide the GitHub profiles of your team members as part of your application, which we will examine for past activity and code quality. Naturally, you can also link to projects on other platforms.
- Your application is rich in technical details and well-defined.
- You can clearly present how your project stands out among competitors or implements technology that doesn't exist in the ecosystem yet.

## Grant rules and project requirements

Open-source technical projects may replicate existing, non-open-sourced solutions, while commercial initiatives must be unique to the ecosystem, requiring strong evidence of the team's capability to deliver the agreed functionality and achieve market traction.
  
General requirements include the following:
- Teams are asked to finish a grant before applying for another one
- We do not award grants for projects that have been the object of a successful token sale.
- We do not fund projects that actively encourage gambling, illicit trade, money laundering, or criminal activities in general.
- A grant may be canceled if the recipient team fails to be responsive and collaborative on agreed milestones within one month of an update request from our team.

Requirements specific to open-source technical projects category:
- All code produced as part of this category of grant must be open-sourced, and it must also not rely on closed-source software for full functionality. We prefer Apache 2.0, but GPLv3, MIT or Unlicense are also acceptable.
- Applications must not mention a specific token. Furthermore, the focus of the application should lie on the software that is being implemented/research being carried out as part of the grant, and less on your project/venture/operation. For the purpose of the application and delivery, think about how others might also benefit from your work.

## Areas of interests
An overview of existing TON projects can be found in [TON Ecosystem map](https://github.com/ton-society/ecosytem-map).
Projects that align with the following priority categories have an increased likelihood of receiving grant support from the ecosystem.

### Infrastructure
- Web IDE
- API Provider (for GraphQL & Event Streaming)
- Web3 OAuth 
- Nodes Healthcheck & Monitoring
- Self-Deployed Node Images for Cloud Services (AWS, Azure, etc.)

### GameFi
- Scolarship (e.g., YGG)
- Rarity tools (e.g., rarity.tools)
- NFT Lending (e.g., nftfi.com)
- HTML5 Engines Support (ex. Cocos2d support for TON libraries)
- Meta transactions, gasless onboarding

Commit message:

Update GRANT_PROGRAM_GUIDELINES with a bit more details about GameFi

grants/GRANT_PROGRAM_GUIDELINES.md, after:

<a href="https://ton.org/">
	<img width="100%" src="/assets/thin-header.png" alt="TON Ecosystem" />
</a>

# Grant program guidelines

Anyone is welcome to apply for a grant. Projects funded through our programs are broad in scope, but our focus lies on strong technical projects that add value to the ecosystem.

Generally, your project will have better chances to be accepted if:

- It presents a well-researched or tested concept, for which ideally you are able to show some prior work.
- You can demonstrate that the project will be maintained after completion of the grant, be it through an obvious commitment to the technology from your side, additional funding sources or an existing business model.
- Your team has proven experience with the relevant languages and technologies and/or a strong technical background. You will be asked to provide the GitHub profiles of your team members as part of your application, which we will examine for past activity and code quality. Naturally, you can also link to projects on other platforms.
- Your application is rich in technical details and well-defined.
- You can clearly present how your project stands out among competitors or implements technology that doesn't exist in the ecosystem yet.

## Grant rules and project requirements

Open-source technical projects may replicate existing, non-open-sourced solutions, while commercial initiatives must be unique to the ecosystem, requiring strong evidence of the team's capability to deliver the agreed functionality and achieve market traction.
  
General requirements include the following:
- Teams are asked to finish a grant before applying for another one
- We do not award grants for projects that have been the object of a successful token sale.
- We do not fund projects that actively encourage gambling, illicit trade, money laundering, or criminal activities in general.
- A grant may be canceled if the recipient team fails to be responsive and collaborative on agreed milestones within one month of an update request from our team.

Requirements specific to open-source technical projects category:
- All code produced as part of this category of grant must be open-sourced, and it must also not rely on closed-source software for full functionality. We prefer Apache 2.0, but GPLv3, MIT or Unlicense are also acceptable.
- Applications must not mention a specific token. Furthermore, the focus of the application should lie on the software that is being implemented/research being carried out as part of the grant, and less on your project/venture/operation. For the purpose of the application and delivery, think about how others might also benefit from your work.

## Areas of interests
An overview of existing TON projects can be found in [TON Ecosystem map](https://github.com/ton-society/ecosytem-map).
Projects that align with the following priority categories have an increased likelihood of receiving grant support from the ecosystem.

### Infrastructure
- Web IDE
- API Provider (for GraphQL & Event Streaming)
- Web3 OAuth 
- Nodes Healthcheck & Monitoring
- Self-Deployed Node Images for Cloud Services (AWS, Azure, etc.)

### GameFi
- Games in Telegram (especially with new use cases for NFT, jettons and social mechanics)
- HTML5 Engines Support (similar to [Unity SDK](https://docs.tonplay.io/sdk/unity-sdk), but for Cocos2d or Phaser)
- Scolarships (e.g., YGG) and tools for them (e.g., GuildFi)
- Rarity tools (e.g., rarity.tools) 
- NFT Lending (e.g., nftfi.com)
- Meta transactions, gasless onboarding
