bounties/BOUNTIES_PROGRAM_GUIDELINES.md, before:

<a href="https://ton.org/">
	<img width="100%" src="/assets/thin-header.png" alt="TON Ecosystem" />
</a>

# TON Bounties Program Guidelines


## Propose a bounty task

All the bounty tasks are initially published and discussed on GitHub.

### Ideation Stage
1. Open a GitHub [**bounty issue**](https://github.com/marktoncontest/grants-and-bounties/issues/new/choose). It's important to choose a proper category for your bounty task.
2. Name the GitHub issue with a title that properly describes your proposal.
3. Fill in GitHub issue fields and publish it.
   
### Review Stage
1. The community can comment, discuss, and suggest changes to the proposed bounty task. Make sure you contribute to spreading the word about your new bounty task suggestion - the feedback of the community will ensure the importance of the task.
2. TON Bounties [**committee**](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps#ton-footsteps-committee) regularly reviews proposals. The committee labels an issue `approved` if approved. Otherwise, they close it.
3. After receipt of the label `approved`, the bounty task is approved for implementation but has not yet been assigned to the executor.

## Get assigned to a bounty task and complete it

### Propose a plan and discuss it with the community

1. Find an approved bounty task from the list of [**approved and not assigned tasks**](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Aapproved+no%3Aassignee).
2. Propose your plan of implementation, **reward size** and **approximate results submission deadline**.
3. Please make sure to provide references that help the committee while evaluating you as a potential executor of the bounty task.
4. Wait for the committee to assign you as a bounty task executor.

### Got assigned? Submit a Questbook proposal.

Once the bounty task is approved and assigned to an executor - it's ready to be published on Questbook for further implementation and reward payouts.

1. Open corresponding bounties program:
    - [**DevTooling Bounties**](https://questbook.app/dashboard/?grantId=0xd92881bea3923fec2d8e61aa947c981faa4ab970&chainId=10&role=admin)
    - [**Education and Resources Bounties**](https://questbook.app/dashboard/?grantId=0x96e3ff60171310eeb7bd1b6216c74d4cc768870f&chainId=10&role=admin)
2. Click button **Submit new**.
3. Fill out the proposal form. Form fields might differ depending on the chosen Bounty program.
4. Make sure project details field includes **implementation plan**, as well as **reward size** and **submission deadline** are set exactly as agreed in bounty task GitHub issue.
5. Click the **Submit Proposal** to finalize submission.

### Bounty task deliverables submission
1. Execute the bounty task.
2. Submit a comment to your Questbook proposal with a brief guide for the committee to evaluate deliverables.
4. Your deliverables submission will be reviewed by community members and the [TON Bounties Committee](link).
5. If deliverables reviewed and confirm - you will receive:
    - Bounty Reward (X$ paid in TONs)
    - TON Footsteps SBT
    - [Hall of Fame]() record

Commit message:

Add information about pull request to hall of fame

bounties/BOUNTIES_PROGRAM_GUIDELINES.md, after:

<a href="https://ton.org/">
	<img width="100%" src="/assets/thin-header.png" alt="TON Ecosystem" />
</a>

# TON Bounties Program Guidelines


## Propose a bounty task

All the bounty tasks are initially published and discussed on GitHub.

### Ideation Stage
1. Open a GitHub [**bounty issue**](https://github.com/marktoncontest/grants-and-bounties/issues/new/choose). It's important to choose a proper category for your bounty task.
2. Name the GitHub issue with a title that properly describes your proposal.
3. Fill in GitHub issue fields and publish it.
   
### Review Stage
1. The community can comment, discuss, and suggest changes to the proposed bounty task. Make sure you contribute to spreading the word about your new bounty task suggestion - the feedback of the community will ensure the importance of the task.
2. TON Bounties [**committee**](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps#ton-footsteps-committee) regularly reviews proposals. The committee labels an issue `approved` if approved. Otherwise, they close it.
3. After receipt of the label `approved`, the bounty task is approved for implementation but has not yet been assigned to the executor.

## Get assigned to a bounty task and complete it

### Propose a plan and discuss it with the community

1. Find an approved bounty task from the list of [**approved and not assigned tasks**](https://github.com/ton-society/ton-footsteps/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Aapproved+no%3Aassignee).
2. Propose your plan of implementation, **reward size** and **approximate results submission deadline**.
3. Please make sure to provide references that help the committee while evaluating you as a potential executor of the bounty task.
4. Wait for the committee to assign you as a bounty task executor.

### Got assigned? Submit a Questbook proposal.

Once the bounty task is approved and assigned to an executor - it's ready to be published on Questbook for further implementation and reward payouts.

1. Open corresponding bounties program:
    - [**DevTooling Bounties**](https://questbook.app/dashboard/?grantId=0xd92881bea3923fec2d8e61aa947c981faa4ab970&chainId=10&role=admin)
    - [**Education and Resources Bounties**](https://questbook.app/dashboard/?grantId=0x96e3ff60171310eeb7bd1b6216c74d4cc768870f&chainId=10&role=admin)
2. Click button **Submit new**.
3. Fill out the proposal form. Form fields might differ depending on the chosen Bounty program.
4. Make sure project details field includes **implementation plan**, as well as **reward size** and **submission deadline** are set exactly as agreed in bounty task GitHub issue.
5. Click the **Submit Proposal** to finalize submission.

### Bounty task deliverables submission
1. Execute the bounty task.
2. Submit a comment to your Questbook proposal with a brief guide for the committee to evaluate deliverables.
3. Submit a Pull Request to the [Hall of Fame](https://github.com/ton-society/grants-and-bounties/blob/main/bounties/HALL_OF_FAME.md) file, providing the wallet address and a link to the bounty with the number (for example, Pull Request https://github.com/ton-society/grants-and-bounties/pull/136).
4. Your deliverables submission will be reviewed by community members and the [TON Bounties Committee](link).
5. If deliverables reviewed and confirm - you will receive:
    - Bounty Reward (X$ paid in TONs)
    - TON Footsteps SBT
